# JDemetra+ 1.5.3

This is the **release 1.5.3 of JDemetra+**. (25 Nov 2014)  
**Java SE 7 and later versions are required** to install and/or run JDemetra+.

## Files

* [OS-independent archive](https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/nexus/content/repositories/releases/eu/europa/ec/joinup/sat/nbdemetra-app/1.5.3/nbdemetra-app-1.5.3.zip)

## Known issues

* Starting with **Java SE 8**, the JDBC-ODBC Bridge is [no longer included with the JDK](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/jdbc/bridge.html).  
Therefore, the **ODBC provider is disabled** when running on this version. It is recommend to use a JDBC driver provided by the vendor of your database or a commercial JDBC Driver instead of the JDBC-ODBC Bridge.
* The 64bit version of the JDBC-ODBC Bridge [throws exceptions randomly](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8038751).  
Therefore, the **ODBC provider is disabled** when running in 64bit.

## Release notes

### Statistical Algorithms

* FIXED: Tramo. Seasonality test: F-Test 
* FIXED: Seats. Decomposition of degenerated models
* FIXED: Spectral diagnostics. Wrong computation of the auto-regressive spectrum: by OLS
* FIXED: X11 without seasonal component
* FIXED: X13. Unused advanced parameters
* IMPROVED: Tramo. Automatic Model Identification
* ADDED: F-test for automatic calendar identification (Tramo)

### I/O

* IMPROVED: Error reporting in providers
* IMPROVED: Memory usage in providers

### Graphical user interface

* ADDED: Ability to hide provider nodes
* FIXED: Disabled configure action on providers node
* FIXED: DataSource ordering in provider nodes
* FIXED: Import on providers nodes
* IMPROVED: Error reporting in providers
* FIXED: Opening of anonymous time series
* FIXED: Select/unselect all in the grid header
* ADDED: Lollipop color scheme
* ADDED: "Open" and "Open with" in popup menu of series nodes
* IMPROVED: Visual feedback of monikers through their providers

### Other

* ADDED: Exception handling in processing
